Jon-Michael Hoang: Do you have any roommates.
Jay: Yes, I do, I have two other roommates.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Do other roommates Okay, and how is cooking partition between you guys.
Jay: Usually I cook.
Jay: The male roommate that I have he cooks from time to time, but usually we don't really eat his food and i'm, the main one to eat like cook.
Jon-Michael Hoang: So what do they.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Usually cook.
Jay: For the guy he usually cooks very, in my opinion, very fatty food more americanized food he does try in different cuisine like Asian food, but.
Jay: Usually doesn't taste the same for female roommate and I have she likes to bake more often and, for me, I usually make a whole wide range of things, but usually stick to more Asian Vietnamese cuisine.
Jon-Michael Hoang: And, are there any difficulties with keeping track of food within your roommates.
Jay: Yes, there is.
Jay: For instance, there's difficulty in tracking who bought What if they can eat this or that, as well as if we have certain ingredients.
Jon-Michael Hoang: So our leftover food, do you think it will be more likely to eat it if you were aware that it is sitting in your fridge why, why not.
Jay: um.
Jay: We would eat it if we were aware, a lot of times usually, we are aware of what's in there, but sometimes you forget what's in the fridge.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Okay.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Like can you give me some examples.
Jay: Like I wouldn't make portions enough to last as the whole week so that would mean that we have a lot of leftovers in the fridge and so we put those containers and usually push back into the fridge and as we keep going throughout the weeks and months, it may sit back there.
Jay: If we don't remember it or if we don't crave it and another time.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Okay, and that said.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Are there like lots of expire food with that in mind.
Jay: From time to time food does expire, and sometimes they to kind of get moldy and it's kind of a shame, because we have to throw it away.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Like can you put it into like an amount.
Jay: uh I would say.
Jay: About once a month, we do have to throw something away like one or two containers.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Containers like how large are these containers.
Jay: kind of like the Chinese takeout containers where they put liquids in it.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Oh, I see I see.
Jon-Michael Hoang: So i'm guessing that like you don't know that they've expired until.
Jon-Michael Hoang: months later right.
Jay: Not months, just like a couple weeks usually.
Jay: A female roommate does take the consideration of what's in the fridge I often forget what we have, but it's up from time to time she asked me if this is still okay and and kind of breeze over it, and say yes Okay, and I see now the next day it goes kind of moldy or sour.
Jon-Michael Hoang: All right, and what's the food left over a situation like that sure home when you're with family.
Jay: Family so away from my house or.
Jon-Michael Hoang: yeah with an apartment.
Jay: yeah so the food and leftovers with away from my house usually is.
Jay: I don't know standard in my eyes, because my parents, they they freeze a lot of things, so they don't go bad and leftovers are just defrost and microwave it up, so I think they have like a better.
Jay: standpoint on not letting food right, whereas in my apartment we don't really had them amount of space to do that kind of routine.
Jon-Michael Hoang: I see so when you waste food like, how do you feel.
Terrible.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Okay, like do you explain more about this feeling.
Jay: So for me since I grew up kind of poor and scares and growing up, it was like we don't waste food, and we should eat all the food that we have and make sure it doesn't go bad.
Jay: So, to me it kind of feels like it got punched that it's this like dang I wasted food this isn't right we don't have the money to get more ingredients and we should have been this instead of eating something else, or possibly even ordering takeout.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Alright, so.
Jon-Michael Hoang: I see the word experiences with eating expired food.
Jay: Well, my experiences are food poisoning.
Jay: feelings of regret, but also.
Jay: feeling sick sometimes.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Okay, so you said that you got sick right from eating expert food so.
Jon-Michael Hoang: How did that situation affect you.
Jay: It kind of made me want to eat all the food first, before getting new things, because I don't want to waste food again.
Jon-Michael Hoang: And that was right, I.
Jon-Michael Hoang: get it right, but like how's it.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Being sick from eating expired food effect you.
Jay: Affected me because it may be unable to function normally because I was too busy being in the bathroom or just feeling under the water to do my daily routines.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Are what's the oldest item that you have had in your refrigerator.
Jay: well.
Jay: You know I, I think it was.
Jay: I think it was.
Jon-Michael Hoang: thing.
Jon-Michael Hoang: And this could be something like in the past or right now that's in your fridge, by the way.
Jay: Oh okay yeah my mom gave me a bunch of oranges, but and she keeps doing that and a while back ago I was just kind of bored I left one orange to stay there to see if the fridge was the issue with the spoiling everything and that orange kind of molded over and like became hard and mushy.
Jay: So I would say about like two months, those in there for.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Do you organize your fridge.
Jay: To the best of our ability, yes.
Jon-Michael Hoang: So okay So how do you organize the food in your fridge.
Jay: So we tried various different ways the way of organization that we have right now is that we have take out and leftovers on the bottom rack of the fridge.
Jay: In the bins where you put fruits and veggies we actually put condiments instead because we don't use us as often and we don't see them from like an eye view when we open the fridge so it's.
Jay: More or less likely to get spoiled because kind of resource well that easily, and then we put fruits and veggies on the top rack where it's closest to like the Van and everything and in the middle wreck we put stuff like juice and drinks and eggs if we have them.
Jon-Michael Hoang: yeah how.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Oh God.
Jay: Oh yeah and then on the door we do put extra economists are things that don't go bad as well.
Jon-Michael Hoang: And how often do you find are expiring food.
Jay: Before I found expanding food every other week or so now that we implemented this sort of.
Jay: structure.
Jay: I would say that we don't find it as much, however.
Jay: um.
Jay: I would say in a month we've only had to throw a food twice.
Jon-Michael Hoang: hey what's the most common food that you usually throw out.
Jay: it's usually fruits, because they tend to expire faster in our fridge.
Jon-Michael Hoang: any specific fruits, or is this fruits in general.
Jay: um I would say, apples and at one point, we had like grapes, so I would say fruits, with a lot of moisture content inside.
Jon-Michael Hoang: With basically high water content.
Jay: yeah there we go.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Okay, so.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Okay So how do you how do your values impact your decisions when you go grocery shopping.
Jay: My values in what way.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Like do you look to buy local produce or organic foods or.
Jay: Oh yeah.
Jay: So I like to shop.
Jay: For groceries at least like fresh groceries at markets, particularly like farmers markets, but since there's not that many here I go to more produce shops that are.
Jay: Huge companies such as walmart and everything, so we have a fresh belly Mart here and I buy products from there.
Jay: And I guess like my values kind of like.
Jay: getting away with that because they we do use the food, but I feel worse about when it spoils because it was actual fresh food that we made with the food that we bought.
Jay: Oh, but we also do go to like the food pantry and stuff to which we don't feel 100% bad if it goes bad, but there's still the feeling of regret and such.
Jon-Michael Hoang: And why was that so.
Jay: Because its food and when spoiled when we could have not had it spoil.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Now tell me about a time when you decide to go grocery shopping and how much or what you buy each time.
Jay: um so we do grow grocery shopping every one or two weeks at one time we don't buy that much actually we buy.
Jay: About a handful or not begs for three people to bring in but typically we buy.
Jay: me and some other ingredients to make something with that.
Jon-Michael Hoang: i'm like what kinds of meat.
Jay: Usually, we go for the cheapest cans of meat, because we're trying to save money, Nice.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Cheap is already know that.
Jon-Michael Hoang: You know what kind of cuts.
Jay: easily, for we get chicken the darker meats so like dies and wings and stuff and sometimes press for certain things that we're making.
Jay: I don't particularly buy beef, because in for me it's not my preference I don't typically like to eat beef and we buy a lot of fish actually and see food products.
Jon-Michael Hoang: And um.
Jon-Michael Hoang: What kind of fish or seafood.
Jay: Such fish, such as tuna fil a's and then salmon place to or they call it tuna states, I think, and then we also get.
Jay: Whole fish from like the market as well, and I just got in clean it up and just fry it up or bake.
Jon-Michael Hoang: So it doesn't matter to you, whether or not food is organic.
Jay: yeah I typically like it to be organic, however, with the means that I am in under it now I don't afford it all the time, but when I do buy organic or you try to make it last and try not to make a split because it costs more.
Jon-Michael Hoang: So that said oh what sorts of dishes do you make again.
Jay: I typically like to cook more agents out of foods, because that reminds me of home and what I ate as a kid growing up, so I cook more Vietnamese food, but I also do some Chinese food as well, since that was also what we were growing up with.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Like what part like Dino what i'm region, the Chinese food is coming from.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Inspired from.
um.
Jay: i'm not sure 100% it's what my mom takes it from.
Jon-Michael Hoang: I see.
Jon-Michael Hoang: And that's it um do you plan your meals like do you cook them.
Jon-Michael Hoang: And like Panama for like the next 10 days, for example.
Jay: uh no not in particular I just wake up one day and figure hey I want to cook this and then call it my mom and asked if she has any recipes for that.
Jay: or just hoping it but with that food it just last us for a while, however many times that make it because I make large portion sizes to last us for the whole week even.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Though pretty much you cook fresh you don't.
Jon-Michael Hoang: You don't plan as long as there's like leftovers right that's going to be the meal for the day.
Jay: yeah and for how much leftovers, we have that's the meal for X amount of more days.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Has there been a time where you want to cook something, but you didn't know if you had the gradients or not.
Jay: you'd be panicking.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Has there ever been a time where you want to cook something but didn't know whether or not you had the ingredients.
Jay: Oh yeah a multitude of times I mean even right now my roommates went out to buy some ingredients, because the guy wanted to make some fried rice so they're going to get ingredients right now.
Jon-Michael Hoang: I see and they use set recipes when you cook delicious.
Jay: For me, I typically don't use that recipes I do it from memory or taste and for my roommates they typically like to use set recipes because they don't cook as often as I do.
Jon-Michael Hoang: He do you cook dishes Oh, do you cook dishes often or do you repeat them, often.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Like as in do you cook the same thing, like for an entire month, for example, or do you like mix it up.
Jay: Oh no i'm mix it up if we could do it for an entire month i'd probably go crazy.
Jon-Michael Hoang: All right, I see So do you have any anything to change or add to any of the answers to the previous questions.
Jay: I don't think so um.
Jay: For the one nutritional value in our food I do pay a lot of attention to that because I have food insecurity, but.
Jay: kind of state we're in i'm just trying to make do with what we have and what we can get.
Jay: That makes sense.
Jon-Michael Hoang: So any other final thoughts.
Jay: and
Jay: I think that is all.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Alright, so I like to thank you for your time just letting you know.
Jon-Michael Hoang: That, if you have any questions, please reach out to any of us.
Jon-Michael Hoang: The our contact information is listed on a consent form, in addition to our professors, but once again, thank you for your time and i'll be stopping the recording and the call right now.
Jon-Michael Hoang: Okay, all right.